README.md, before:

# Autoware.auto Course Notes
[![Autoware.Auto badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Autoware-Auto-orange.svg)](https://www.autoware.auto/)

This repository will contain the notes I took during my course on Autoware.auto, a ROS-based software stack for autonomous vehicle development, the biggest free software standard for this purpose.

This course uses the open source robotics framework ROS 2 and the Autoware.Auto algorithms, which are covered through the 14 lectures of it, which show state-of-the-art techniques to combine hardware, software, algorithms, methodologies, tools and data to build useful applications in the autonomous system context. It is oriented to students with previous experience in related fields and knowledges of C++, testing, robotics frameworks and system integration.

The learning platform are the student's personal computers with [ade-cli](https://ade-cli.readthedocs.io/en/latest/). Each lecture will be provided by YouTube and have an associated *.md* file [here](https://gitlab.com/ApexAI/autowareclass2020/-/tree/master/lectures) that will be followed by the lecturer to record the videos. They will also use [ade-cli](https://ade-cli.readthedocs.io/en/latest/). A new lecture will be uploaded weekly starting from the Monday 11th of May 2020. Everything will be linked and divided by lessons and parts in the [Apex.AI website](https://www.apex.ai/autoware-course).

Each folder in this repository contains the notes (in *.md* files) of one of the lectures (listed in the *Collaborators* section of this README) and its name will start by the correspondent lesson number. There is one additional folder, *0_additional_information*, which contains relevant related information I gathered both before and during the course.


## Collaborators
This course is held by [Apex.AI](https://www.apex.ai/autoware-course) and TheConstructSim organized the classes and was in charge of the logistics. Moreover, the following entities were in charge of the course parts listed below:

- Lecture 1: Development Environment: **Apex.AI / StreetScooter**
- Lecture 2: ROS 2 101: **Open Source Robotics Foundation**
- Lecture 3: ROS 2 Tooling: **Open Source Robotics Foundation**
- Lecture 4: Platform (HW, RTOS, DDS): **AD-Link**
- Lecture 5: Architectures of Autonomous Driving Stacks: **Virtual Vehicle Research Center**
- Lecture 6: Autoware 101: **Autoware Foundation**
- Lecture 7: Object Perception LiDAR: **ApexA.AI**
- Lecture 8: Object Perception Camera
- Lecture 9: Object Perception Radar
- Lecture 10: State Estimation for Localization: **Autoware Foundation**
- Lecture 11: LGSVL Simulation: **LGSVL**
- Lecture 12: HD maps: **Parkopedia**
- Lecture 13: Motion planning and control: **Embotech**
- Lecture 14: Data storage and analytics: **Ternaris**

Commit message:

README and Lesson 01: Added links to companies in README and removed lessons and companies from Lesson 01 (it's already in the main README).

README.md, after:

# Autoware.auto Course Notes
[![Autoware.Auto badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Autoware-Auto-orange.svg)](https://www.autoware.auto)

This repository will contain the notes I took during my course on Autoware.auto, a ROS-based software stack for autonomous vehicle development, the biggest free software standard for this purpose.

This course uses the open source robotics framework ROS 2 and the Autoware.Auto algorithms, which are covered through the 14 lectures of it, which show state-of-the-art techniques to combine hardware, software, algorithms, methodologies, tools and data to build useful applications in the autonomous system context. It is oriented to students with previous experience in related fields and knowledges of C++, testing, robotics frameworks and system integration.

The learning platform are the student's personal computers with [ade-cli](https://ade-cli.readthedocs.io/en/latest). Each lecture will be provided by YouTube and have an associated *.md* file [here](https://gitlab.com/ApexAI/autowareclass2020/-/tree/master/lectures) that will be followed by the lecturer to record the videos. They will also use [ade-cli](https://ade-cli.readthedocs.io/en/latest/). A new lecture will be uploaded weekly starting from the Monday 11th of May 2020. Everything will be linked and divided by lessons and parts in the [Apex.AI website](https://www.apex.ai/autoware-course).

Each folder in this repository contains the notes (in *.md* files) of one of the lectures (listed in the *Collaborators* section of this README) and its name will start by the correspondent lesson number. There is one additional folder, *0_additional_information*, which contains relevant related information I gathered both before and during the course.


## Lessons and Collaborators
This course is held by [Apex.AI](https://www.apex.ai/autoware-course) and [TheConstruct](http://www.theconstruct.ai) organized the classes and was in charge of the logistics. Moreover, the following entities were in charge of the course parts listed below:

- [Lecture 01](https://github.com/jmtc7/autoware-course/tree/master/01_development_environment): Development Environment: **[Apex.AI](https://www.apex.ai) / [StreetScooter](http://streetscooter.com)**
- [Lecture 02](https://github.com/jmtc7/autoware-course/tree/master/02_ROS2_101): ROS 2 101: **[Open Source Robotics Foundation](http://openrobotics.org)**
- Lecture 03: ROS 2 Tooling: **[Open Source Robotics Foundation](http://openrobotics.org)**
- Lecture 04: Platform (HW, RTOS, DDS): **[ADLink](http://adlink-labs.tech)**
- Lecture 05: Architectures of Autonomous Driving Stacks: **[Virtual Vehicle Research Center (TU Graz)](https://www.tugraz.at/en/home)**
- Lecture 06: Autoware 101: **[Autoware Foundation](https://www.autoware.org)**
- Lecture 07: Object Perception LiDAR: **[Apex.AI](https://www.apex.ai)**
- Lecture 08: Object Perception Camera: **[FH AAchen University](https://www.fh-aachen.de/en)**
- Lecture 09: Object Perception Radar: **[FH AAchen University](https://www.fh-aachen.de/en)**
- Lecture 10: State Estimation for Localization (Sensor Fusion): **[Autoware Foundation](https://www.autoware.org)**
- Lecture 11: LGSVL Simulation: **[LGSVL](http://lge.com)**
- Lecture 12: HD maps: **[Parkopedia](http://parkopedia.com)**
- Lecture 13: Motion planning and Control: **[Embotech](http://embotech.com)**
- Lecture 14: MARV for Data Storage and Analytics: **[Ternaris](https://ternaris.com)**

Other collaborators are: [AutonomouStuff](https://autonomoustuff.com), [Kalray](http://kalray.eu), [Samsung](https://www.sra.samsung.com), and [Tier](IV http://tier4.jp).

Each lesson will contain a theoretical background, programatic examples and systematic examples, so that the students will be able to experiment with the *labs*.
