03_ROS2_tooling/README.md, before:

# Lecture 03: ROS 2 CLI Tooling
[![Autoware.Auto badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Autoware-Auto-orange.svg)](https://www.autoware.auto)

This lecture will be provided by [Katherine Scott](https://www.linkedin.com/in/katherineascott), Developer Advocate at Open Robotics. The lecture video is available in YouTube:

[![Lecture video](https://img.youtube.com/vi/wcibIqiRb04/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wcibIqiRb04&list=PLL57Sz4fhxLpCXgN0lvCF7aHAlRA5FoFr&index=3)

The content of this lecture will be an overview of the Command Line Interface (CLI) tools that ROS 2 provides for building, runing, degubing, introspecting and deploying ROS 2 systems. This lecture's motivation is to share knowledge on how to get familiar with systems that other people has developed or get insights on how our own ones are working.

The provided materials in *reStructuredText* can be found in the Apex.AI's [autowareclass2020 repository](https://gitlab.com/ApexAI/autowareclass2020/-/blob/master/lectures/03_ROS_Tooling/Lesson3CLI.rst), in GitLab. They are also able in PDF.

## [3.1. Setting Up the Environment](https://youtu.be/wcibIqiRb04?t=250)
As in the previous lecture, ROS 2 Dashing will be used, which is supported for Ubuntu 18.04 machines. Following the steps explained in the [first lecture](https://github.com/jmtc7/autoware-course/tree/master/01_development_environment), these are the commands that need to be executed before continuing:

```bash
# Start and enter the ADE environment
$ cd adehome/AutowareAuto/
$ ade start
$ ade enter

# Source the ROS installation to be used (ROS 2 Dashing)
ade$ source /opt/ros/dashing/setup.bash

# Update apt lists and install packages that will be used in this lecture
ade$ sudo apt update
ade$ sudo apt install ros-dashing-turtlesim
ade$ sudo apt install ros-dashing-rqt-.*
```

## [3.2. Basic Command Line Tooling in ROS 2](https://youtu.be/wcibIqiRb04?t=330)
### [Getting help](https://youtu.be/wcibIqiRb04?t=330)
`ros2` is an extensible command line tool. `ros2 --help` will print a list of the available commands that can be used to extend its functionality. To learn more about each of this commands, `ros2 <command> -h` should be used. The output of this command will be:

```bash
ade$ ros2 --help
usage: ros2 [-h] Call 'ros2 <command> -h' for more detailed usage. ...

ros2 is an extensible command-line tool for ROS 2.

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit

Commands:
  action     Various action related sub-commands
  bag        Various rosbag related sub-commands
  component  Various component related sub-commands
  daemon     Various daemon related sub-commands
  launch     Run a launch file
  lifecycle  Various lifecycle related sub-commands
  msg        Various msg related sub-commands
  multicast  Various multicast related sub-commands
  node       Various node related sub-commands
  param      Various param related sub-commands
  pkg        Various package related sub-commands
  run        Run a package specific executable
  security   Various security related sub-commands
  service    Various service related sub-commands
  srv        Various srv related sub-commands
  test       Run a ROS2 launch test
  topic      Various topic related sub-commands

  Call `ros2 <command> -h' for more detailed usage.
```

### [Running Executables](https://youtu.be/wcibIqiRb04?t=385)
This is done by using `ros2 run`. The help provided by this command is the following:

```bash
ade$ ros2 run --help
usage: ros2 run [-h] [--prefix PREFIX] package_name executable_name ...                                                                                                                                                                      
Run a package specific executable                                                                                                                                                                                                            
positional arguments:                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
  package_name     Name of the ROS package
  executable_name  Name of the executable
  argv             Pass arbitrary arguments to the executable

optional arguments:
  -h, --help       show this help message and exit
  --prefix PREFIX  Prefix command, which should go before the executable.
                   Command must be wrapped in quotes if it contains spaces
                   (e.g. --prefix 'gdb -ex run --args').
```

It requires a package name and the name of the executable to run. It can also take some prefixes and arguments. For the example that will be used in this lecture, the syntaxis will be:

```bash
ade$ ros2 run turtlesim turtlesim_node
```

After running it, a simple simulation with a turtle that draws the path that it has followed is launched. The `turtlesim` package provides other nodes such as `draw_square` or `turtle_teleop_key` that will make the turtle draw squares or make the user able to teleoperate it, respectively. When using some of the additional nodes, they will be running in another terminal session and both will be communicating through ROS topics.

### [Inspecting Nodes](https://youtu.be/wcibIqiRb04?t=565)
There can be the case that we do not know or not remember how a ROS-based system works, specially when they are not as simple as the one showed before. For these cases, the first thing to do is knowing which components (nodes) does the system have. In order to do so, `ros2 node` is to be used.

```bash
ade$ ros2 node --help
usage: ros2 node [-h]
                 Call `ros2 node <command> -h` for more detailed usage. ...

Various node related sub-commands

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
                                                      
Commands:
  info  Output information about a node
  list  Output a list of available nodes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
  Call `ros2 node <command> -h` for more detailed usage.
```

As shown in the help of this command, it can either **list the current active nodes** (`ros2 node list`) or provide **information about one of them** in particular (ros2 node info <node_name>). In particular, the `info` option will show which topics are being published or subscribed by the node (and the message type) and the services and actions that it is using.


## [3.3. Bus Sniffing and Topic Examination](https://youtu.be/wcibIqiRb04?t=755)
Once the nodes composing the system are known, the next most relevant thing is to know how do they communicate between each other. For this purpose, `ros2 topic` will be used.

```bash
ade$ ros2 topic --help                                                                                                                                                                                                               
usage: ros2 topic [-h] [--include-hidden-topics]
                  Call `ros2 topic <command> -h` for more detailed usage. ...

Various topic related sub-commands

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --include-hidden-topics
                        Consider hidden topics as well

Commands:
  bw     Display bandwidth used by topic
  delay  Display delay of topic from timestamp in header
  echo   Output messages from a topic
  hz     Print the average publishing rate to screen
  info   Print information about a topic
  list   Output a list of available topics
  pub    Publish a message to a topic

  Call `ros2 topic <command> -h` for more detailed usage.
```

The first thing to do would be `ros2 topic list` to see which topics are active. This may output several topics starting by the same string (i.e. `/turtle1/...`. This is often used as a *namespace* to keep the topics organized or allow several instances of something to be in the system. For example, if the system will have 3 identical robots, each of them may publish in topics with the same name but starting with `/robot1`, `/robot2`, and `/robot3` to keep things clearly separated and following the same naming standard.

After knowing the active topics, we may be interested in knowing how many nodes are subsribed to or publishing in a certain topic, which can be done with `ros2 topic info <topic_name>`. `ros2 msg show <message_type>` can be used with the message type that is being published in a certain topic to get info about what is this message composed of.

Other posibility is to see what is being published (with `ros2 topic echo <topic_name>`). It also provides additional options, such as outputting the messages in CSV format. Some things that this command allows are:

- Using the **output redirection operator** to redirect the output of the command to a file. This can be specially useful when the `--csv` flag has been used for using the data for other purposes, such as data analysis or just plotting.
- Using the **pipe operator** to forward the output through another command, such as **grep**, which will allow the user to only print information containing a certain string. This may be useful for search certain values or only see an element of each message.

It is also possible to publish a message manually using `ros2 topic pub <topic_name> <message_type> <message_value>`. It offers several flags, each of them explained in the `--help` of the command. An example of the format that the message value uses would be `{linear: {x: 2.0, y: 0.0, z: 0.0}, angular: {x: 0.0, y: 0.0, z: 1.8}}`, which corresponds to the `geometry_msgs/msg/Twist` message type.

`ros2 topic` also allows to evaluate some system constraints, such as the required bandwidth with `ros2 topic bw <topic_name>`. This command also offers the possibily of using a custom window size to compute the measurement.

Another useful tool for analyzing system performance is `hz`, which used as `ros2 topic hz <topic_name>`, will provide the highest, lowest and average frequencies at which a topic is being published. It will also say the standard deviation of the average frequency and the used window size. Again, the window size is customizable and it allow a few other flags.


## [3.4. GUI Tooling](https://youtu.be/wcibIqiRb04?t=1730)
ROS also provides graphical tools for inspecting the system. The collection of QT-based ROS graphical tools is named ***RQT*** (ROS QT). This set of tools can be installed with `sudo apt intall ros-dashing-rqt*` and executed with `rqt`. Once running, from the *Plugins* option of the top bar menu, many things can be monitored. An example would be **Plugins/Topics/Topic Monitor**, which will show a list of topics and the message type published on them. Each of them can be extended to see details of the message components. The bandwidth, publishing frequency and value of the last message is also shown.

RQT also includes another very useful tool, `rqt_graph`. When ran, it will show a graph connecting all the active nodes between them with topics, services and actions. It has several configurations to choose what to visualize and how to do it, but when visualizing everything, the topics will be framed with rectangles, and the nodes with ovals. This is very useful with big and/or complex systems where it is not so easy to visualize the interaction of all the components using only the CLI. It is also very useful for documenting and explaining the systems created by ourselves.


## [3.5. Parameters](https://youtu.be/wcibIqiRb04?t=1990)
ROS parameters are a collection of parameters that any node can access and modify. A sample usage of this would be an autonomous vehicle driving in roads with a speed limit that may change. There may be one node in charge of reading traffic signs that will update a ROS parameter that represents the speed limit, so that every other node that may need this information can just read it from there. A full and more in-depth tutorial on ROS parameters can be found [here](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Tutorials/Parameters/Understanding-ROS2-Parameters).

```bash
ade$ ros2 param --help
usage: ros2 param [-h]
                  Call `ros2 param <command> -h` for more detailed usage. ...

Various param related sub-commands

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit

Commands:
  delete  Delete parameter
  get     Get parameter
  list    Output a list of available parameters
  set     Set parameter

  Call `ros2 param <command> -h` for more detailed usage.
```

`ros2 param` gives us four options to use ROS parameters:

- Delete a parameter.
- Get a parameter (e.g. `ros2 param get /turtlesim background_r).
- List the available parameters (e.g. `ros2 param list`).
- Set a parameter (e.g. `ros2 param set /turtlesim background_r 0`). NOTE: This may seem broken, but there are a few things that need to be done in order to update the background using the new parameter.


## [3.6.Services](https://youtu.be/wcibIqiRb04?t=2255)
A full tutorial on ROS services is available [here](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Tutorials/Services/Understanding-ROS2-Services). A ROS service, as explained in the second lecture, are synchronous calls for blocking processes that are comonly used for very quick tasks (and, most of the time, that are very unlikely to fail in its execution). A usecase for this could be a service for unlocking the doors in a vehicle.

```bash
ade$ ros2 service --help
usage: ros2 service [-h] [--include-hidden-services]
                    Call `ros2 service <command> -h` for more detailed usage.
                    ...

Various service related sub-commands

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --include-hidden-services
                        Consider hidden services as well

Commands:
  call  Call a service
  list  Output a list of available services

  Call `ros2 service <command> -h` for more detailed usage.
```

Similarly as with topics, `ros2 service list` will list all the available services. The `-t` or `--show-types` flag will print where the service is defined, so that it will be possible to know which inputs and outpus they have using `ros2 srv show <service_type>`. `ros2 srv` can be used to get more advanced insights on service types that will provide with more informatin in order to call services with complex messages, which is often needed, such as for spawning a new turtle: `ros2 service call /spawn turtlesim/srv/Spawn "{x: 2, y: 2, theta: 0.2, name: 'larry'}"`.

As seen in the previous lecture, `ros2 service call` can be used to call a service forwarding a certain request to it. In relation to the ROS paramter that was setted in the last section, it is possible to update the background calling the service `/reset` with an empty message as follows: `ros2 service call /reset /std_srvs/srv/Empty`.


## [3.7. Actions](https://youtu.be/wcibIqiRb04?t=2805)
They are very similar to services, but address asynchronous tasks, which are used for slower procedures or those that can fail, such as asking a robot to wander, search and pick up 10 red balls. When implemented with an action, the caller node will be able to receive a feedback while the action is being executed, such as how many balls have already been found, and it would also be possible to receive success or failure messages. Meanwhile, the caller node will not be blocked and will be able to do other things. However, with a service, the caller will be blocked until the service returns something. Actions also offer the posibility to cancel its execution. They are usually preferred over services because of all these additional functionalities. However, the resulting code will be more complex both to develop and to maintain.

```bash
ade$ ros2 action --help
usage: ros2 action [-h]
                   Call `ros2 action <command> -h` for more detailed usage.
                   ...

Various action related sub-commands

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit

Commands:
  info       Print information about an action
  list       Output a list of action names
  send_goal  Send an action goal
  show       Output the action definition

  Call `ros2 action <command> -h` for more detailed usage.
```

`ros2 action list` will show all the active actions and, as `service`, it also takes the `-t` flag to show the action types. `ros2 action info` will show the action name and the count of servers and clients. `ros2 action show` will show the components of a given action type.

Once having all this information, it is possible to use `ros2 action send goal` to send a goal to the action server. A sample goal sending would be `ros2 action send_goal -f /turtle1/rotate_absolute turtlesim/action/RotateAbsolute {'theta: 1.70'}`. The `-f` flag will provide echoing of the feedback.


## [3.8. ROS bags for Data Logging](https://youtu.be/wcibIqiRb04?t=3390)
ROS bags allow ROS users to record and replay what is happening in a ROS-based system. This is very useful for testing and debugging because by running the system and recording all the data one, it is possible to use it as many times as are needed without even accessing the real robot, sensors or testing environment. They are also very commonly used to distribute data in public repositories, publications, etc.

```bash
ade$ ros2 bag --help
usage: ros2 bag [-h] Call `ros2 bag <command> -h` for more detailed usage. ...

Various rosbag related sub-commands

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit

Commands:
  info    ros2 bag info
  play    ros2 bag play
  record  ros2 bag record

  Call `ros2 bag <command> -h` for more detailed usage.
```

As shown in the help message, it is possible to get `info` about an already created ROS bag, to `play` it or to `record` a new one. When running `ros2 bag record -o <bag_name>`, everything will be recorded and stored in the `<bag_name>` file. However, it is also possible to provide a list of the topics that are wanted to be recorded. Once having a bag to work with, information about it can be obtained using `ros2 bag info <bag_name>` or replayed with `ros2 bag play <bag_name>`.

Commit message:

Lectures 01-04: Add official resources and say it in their READMEs

03_ROS2_tooling/README.md, after:

# Lecture 03: ROS 2 CLI Tooling
[![Autoware.Auto badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Autoware-Auto-orange.svg)](https://www.autoware.auto)

This lecture will be provided by [Katherine Scott](https://www.linkedin.com/in/katherineascott), Developer Advocate at Open Robotics. The lecture video is available in YouTube:

[![Lecture video](https://img.youtube.com/vi/wcibIqiRb04/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wcibIqiRb04&list=PLL57Sz4fhxLpCXgN0lvCF7aHAlRA5FoFr&index=3)

The content of this lecture will be an overview of the Command Line Interface (CLI) tools that ROS 2 provides for building, runing, degubing, introspecting and deploying ROS 2 systems. This lecture's motivation is to share knowledge on how to get familiar with systems that other people has developed or get insights on how our own ones are working.

The provided materials in *reStructuredText* can be found in the Apex.AI's [autowareclass2020 repository](https://gitlab.com/ApexAI/autowareclass2020/-/blob/master/lectures/03_ROS_Tooling/Lesson3CLI.rst), in GitLab. They are also able in PDF and html. The PDF is included in the *resources* folder of this directory.

## [3.1. Setting Up the Environment](https://youtu.be/wcibIqiRb04?t=250)
As in the previous lecture, ROS 2 Dashing will be used, which is supported for Ubuntu 18.04 machines. Following the steps explained in the [first lecture](https://github.com/jmtc7/autoware-course/tree/master/01_development_environment), these are the commands that need to be executed before continuing:

```bash
# Start and enter the ADE environment
$ cd adehome/AutowareAuto/
$ ade start
$ ade enter

# Source the ROS installation to be used (ROS 2 Dashing)
ade$ source /opt/ros/dashing/setup.bash

# Update apt lists and install packages that will be used in this lecture
ade$ sudo apt update
ade$ sudo apt install ros-dashing-turtlesim
ade$ sudo apt install ros-dashing-rqt-.*
```

## [3.2. Basic Command Line Tooling in ROS 2](https://youtu.be/wcibIqiRb04?t=330)
### [Getting help](https://youtu.be/wcibIqiRb04?t=330)
`ros2` is an extensible command line tool. `ros2 --help` will print a list of the available commands that can be used to extend its functionality. To learn more about each of this commands, `ros2 <command> -h` should be used. The output of this command will be:

```bash
ade$ ros2 --help
usage: ros2 [-h] Call 'ros2 <command> -h' for more detailed usage. ...

ros2 is an extensible command-line tool for ROS 2.

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit

Commands:
  action     Various action related sub-commands
  bag        Various rosbag related sub-commands
  component  Various component related sub-commands
  daemon     Various daemon related sub-commands
  launch     Run a launch file
  lifecycle  Various lifecycle related sub-commands
  msg        Various msg related sub-commands
  multicast  Various multicast related sub-commands
  node       Various node related sub-commands
  param      Various param related sub-commands
  pkg        Various package related sub-commands
  run        Run a package specific executable
  security   Various security related sub-commands
  service    Various service related sub-commands
  srv        Various srv related sub-commands
  test       Run a ROS2 launch test
  topic      Various topic related sub-commands

  Call `ros2 <command> -h' for more detailed usage.
```

### [Running Executables](https://youtu.be/wcibIqiRb04?t=385)
This is done by using `ros2 run`. The help provided by this command is the following:

```bash
ade$ ros2 run --help
usage: ros2 run [-h] [--prefix PREFIX] package_name executable_name ...                                                                                                                                                                      
Run a package specific executable                                                                                                                                                                                                            
positional arguments:                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
  package_name     Name of the ROS package
  executable_name  Name of the executable
  argv             Pass arbitrary arguments to the executable

optional arguments:
  -h, --help       show this help message and exit
  --prefix PREFIX  Prefix command, which should go before the executable.
                   Command must be wrapped in quotes if it contains spaces
                   (e.g. --prefix 'gdb -ex run --args').
```

It requires a package name and the name of the executable to run. It can also take some prefixes and arguments. For the example that will be used in this lecture, the syntaxis will be:

```bash
ade$ ros2 run turtlesim turtlesim_node
```

After running it, a simple simulation with a turtle that draws the path that it has followed is launched. The `turtlesim` package provides other nodes such as `draw_square` or `turtle_teleop_key` that will make the turtle draw squares or make the user able to teleoperate it, respectively. When using some of the additional nodes, they will be running in another terminal session and both will be communicating through ROS topics.

### [Inspecting Nodes](https://youtu.be/wcibIqiRb04?t=565)
There can be the case that we do not know or not remember how a ROS-based system works, specially when they are not as simple as the one showed before. For these cases, the first thing to do is knowing which components (nodes) does the system have. In order to do so, `ros2 node` is to be used.

```bash
ade$ ros2 node --help
usage: ros2 node [-h]
                 Call `ros2 node <command> -h` for more detailed usage. ...

Various node related sub-commands

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
                                                      
Commands:
  info  Output information about a node
  list  Output a list of available nodes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
  Call `ros2 node <command> -h` for more detailed usage.
```

As shown in the help of this command, it can either **list the current active nodes** (`ros2 node list`) or provide **information about one of them** in particular (ros2 node info <node_name>). In particular, the `info` option will show which topics are being published or subscribed by the node (and the message type) and the services and actions that it is using.


## [3.3. Bus Sniffing and Topic Examination](https://youtu.be/wcibIqiRb04?t=755)
Once the nodes composing the system are known, the next most relevant thing is to know how do they communicate between each other. For this purpose, `ros2 topic` will be used.

```bash
ade$ ros2 topic --help                                                                                                                                                                                                               
usage: ros2 topic [-h] [--include-hidden-topics]
                  Call `ros2 topic <command> -h` for more detailed usage. ...

Various topic related sub-commands

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --include-hidden-topics
                        Consider hidden topics as well

Commands:
  bw     Display bandwidth used by topic
  delay  Display delay of topic from timestamp in header
  echo   Output messages from a topic
  hz     Print the average publishing rate to screen
  info   Print information about a topic
  list   Output a list of available topics
  pub    Publish a message to a topic

  Call `ros2 topic <command> -h` for more detailed usage.
```

The first thing to do would be `ros2 topic list` to see which topics are active. This may output several topics starting by the same string (i.e. `/turtle1/...`. This is often used as a *namespace* to keep the topics organized or allow several instances of something to be in the system. For example, if the system will have 3 identical robots, each of them may publish in topics with the same name but starting with `/robot1`, `/robot2`, and `/robot3` to keep things clearly separated and following the same naming standard.

After knowing the active topics, we may be interested in knowing how many nodes are subsribed to or publishing in a certain topic, which can be done with `ros2 topic info <topic_name>`. `ros2 msg show <message_type>` can be used with the message type that is being published in a certain topic to get info about what is this message composed of.

Other posibility is to see what is being published (with `ros2 topic echo <topic_name>`). It also provides additional options, such as outputting the messages in CSV format. Some things that this command allows are:

- Using the **output redirection operator** to redirect the output of the command to a file. This can be specially useful when the `--csv` flag has been used for using the data for other purposes, such as data analysis or just plotting.
- Using the **pipe operator** to forward the output through another command, such as **grep**, which will allow the user to only print information containing a certain string. This may be useful for search certain values or only see an element of each message.

It is also possible to publish a message manually using `ros2 topic pub <topic_name> <message_type> <message_value>`. It offers several flags, each of them explained in the `--help` of the command. An example of the format that the message value uses would be `{linear: {x: 2.0, y: 0.0, z: 0.0}, angular: {x: 0.0, y: 0.0, z: 1.8}}`, which corresponds to the `geometry_msgs/msg/Twist` message type.

`ros2 topic` also allows to evaluate some system constraints, such as the required bandwidth with `ros2 topic bw <topic_name>`. This command also offers the possibily of using a custom window size to compute the measurement.

Another useful tool for analyzing system performance is `hz`, which used as `ros2 topic hz <topic_name>`, will provide the highest, lowest and average frequencies at which a topic is being published. It will also say the standard deviation of the average frequency and the used window size. Again, the window size is customizable and it allow a few other flags.


## [3.4. GUI Tooling](https://youtu.be/wcibIqiRb04?t=1730)
ROS also provides graphical tools for inspecting the system. The collection of QT-based ROS graphical tools is named ***RQT*** (ROS QT). This set of tools can be installed with `sudo apt intall ros-dashing-rqt*` and executed with `rqt`. Once running, from the *Plugins* option of the top bar menu, many things can be monitored. An example would be **Plugins/Topics/Topic Monitor**, which will show a list of topics and the message type published on them. Each of them can be extended to see details of the message components. The bandwidth, publishing frequency and value of the last message is also shown.

RQT also includes another very useful tool, `rqt_graph`. When ran, it will show a graph connecting all the active nodes between them with topics, services and actions. It has several configurations to choose what to visualize and how to do it, but when visualizing everything, the topics will be framed with rectangles, and the nodes with ovals. This is very useful with big and/or complex systems where it is not so easy to visualize the interaction of all the components using only the CLI. It is also very useful for documenting and explaining the systems created by ourselves.


## [3.5. Parameters](https://youtu.be/wcibIqiRb04?t=1990)
ROS parameters are a collection of parameters that any node can access and modify. A sample usage of this would be an autonomous vehicle driving in roads with a speed limit that may change. There may be one node in charge of reading traffic signs that will update a ROS parameter that represents the speed limit, so that every other node that may need this information can just read it from there. A full and more in-depth tutorial on ROS parameters can be found [here](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Tutorials/Parameters/Understanding-ROS2-Parameters).

```bash
ade$ ros2 param --help
usage: ros2 param [-h]
                  Call `ros2 param <command> -h` for more detailed usage. ...

Various param related sub-commands

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit

Commands:
  delete  Delete parameter
  get     Get parameter
  list    Output a list of available parameters
  set     Set parameter

  Call `ros2 param <command> -h` for more detailed usage.
```

`ros2 param` gives us four options to use ROS parameters:

- Delete a parameter.
- Get a parameter (e.g. `ros2 param get /turtlesim background_r).
- List the available parameters (e.g. `ros2 param list`).
- Set a parameter (e.g. `ros2 param set /turtlesim background_r 0`). NOTE: This may seem broken, but there are a few things that need to be done in order to update the background using the new parameter.


## [3.6.Services](https://youtu.be/wcibIqiRb04?t=2255)
A full tutorial on ROS services is available [here](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Tutorials/Services/Understanding-ROS2-Services). A ROS service, as explained in the second lecture, are synchronous calls for blocking processes that are comonly used for very quick tasks (and, most of the time, that are very unlikely to fail in its execution). A usecase for this could be a service for unlocking the doors in a vehicle.

```bash
ade$ ros2 service --help
usage: ros2 service [-h] [--include-hidden-services]
                    Call `ros2 service <command> -h` for more detailed usage.
                    ...

Various service related sub-commands

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --include-hidden-services
                        Consider hidden services as well

Commands:
  call  Call a service
  list  Output a list of available services

  Call `ros2 service <command> -h` for more detailed usage.
```

Similarly as with topics, `ros2 service list` will list all the available services. The `-t` or `--show-types` flag will print where the service is defined, so that it will be possible to know which inputs and outpus they have using `ros2 srv show <service_type>`. `ros2 srv` can be used to get more advanced insights on service types that will provide with more informatin in order to call services with complex messages, which is often needed, such as for spawning a new turtle: `ros2 service call /spawn turtlesim/srv/Spawn "{x: 2, y: 2, theta: 0.2, name: 'larry'}"`.

As seen in the previous lecture, `ros2 service call` can be used to call a service forwarding a certain request to it. In relation to the ROS paramter that was setted in the last section, it is possible to update the background calling the service `/reset` with an empty message as follows: `ros2 service call /reset /std_srvs/srv/Empty`.


## [3.7. Actions](https://youtu.be/wcibIqiRb04?t=2805)
They are very similar to services, but address asynchronous tasks, which are used for slower procedures or those that can fail, such as asking a robot to wander, search and pick up 10 red balls. When implemented with an action, the caller node will be able to receive a feedback while the action is being executed, such as how many balls have already been found, and it would also be possible to receive success or failure messages. Meanwhile, the caller node will not be blocked and will be able to do other things. However, with a service, the caller will be blocked until the service returns something. Actions also offer the posibility to cancel its execution. They are usually preferred over services because of all these additional functionalities. However, the resulting code will be more complex both to develop and to maintain.

```bash
ade$ ros2 action --help
usage: ros2 action [-h]
                   Call `ros2 action <command> -h` for more detailed usage.
                   ...

Various action related sub-commands

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit

Commands:
  info       Print information about an action
  list       Output a list of action names
  send_goal  Send an action goal
  show       Output the action definition

  Call `ros2 action <command> -h` for more detailed usage.
```

`ros2 action list` will show all the active actions and, as `service`, it also takes the `-t` flag to show the action types. `ros2 action info` will show the action name and the count of servers and clients. `ros2 action show` will show the components of a given action type.

Once having all this information, it is possible to use `ros2 action send goal` to send a goal to the action server. A sample goal sending would be `ros2 action send_goal -f /turtle1/rotate_absolute turtlesim/action/RotateAbsolute {'theta: 1.70'}`. The `-f` flag will provide echoing of the feedback.


## [3.8. ROS bags for Data Logging](https://youtu.be/wcibIqiRb04?t=3390)
ROS bags allow ROS users to record and replay what is happening in a ROS-based system. This is very useful for testing and debugging because by running the system and recording all the data one, it is possible to use it as many times as are needed without even accessing the real robot, sensors or testing environment. They are also very commonly used to distribute data in public repositories, publications, etc.

```bash
ade$ ros2 bag --help
usage: ros2 bag [-h] Call `ros2 bag <command> -h` for more detailed usage. ...

Various rosbag related sub-commands

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit

Commands:
  info    ros2 bag info
  play    ros2 bag play
  record  ros2 bag record

  Call `ros2 bag <command> -h` for more detailed usage.
```

As shown in the help message, it is possible to get `info` about an already created ROS bag, to `play` it or to `record` a new one. When running `ros2 bag record -o <bag_name>`, everything will be recorded and stored in the `<bag_name>` file. However, it is also possible to provide a list of the topics that are wanted to be recorded. Once having a bag to work with, information about it can be obtained using `ros2 bag info <bag_name>` or replayed with `ros2 bag play <bag_name>`.
